# Project docs
***
## Getting started
Since the main OpenLibraryNET project relies on the built .dll's of other projects in the solution, you should see warnings notifying you that these .dll's are missing.
You will have to build them before you build OpenLibraryNET.

Once you build them, VisualStudio may have issues recognizing that the .dll's have now been created; a restart of VisualStudio fixes that.

So basically:
  * Clone the repository
  * Open the solution file
  * Build the solution
  * Close VisualStudio
  * Open the solution file again

Now you should be good to go.
As a sidenote, in my experience the build created in step 3 is already valid.

## Source generators and analyzers
There are two source generators included in [OpenLibraryNET.SourceGenerators](https://github.com/Luca3317/OpenLibrary.NET/tree/main/code%20generation/OpenLibraryNET.SourceGenerators).

Both of them serve to generate methods on types decorated with specific attributes, which are defined in [OpenLibraryNET.GeneratorAttributes](https://github.com/Luca3317/OpenLibrary.NET/tree/main/code%20generation/OpenLibraryNET.GeneratorAttributes).

The attributes also come with their respective analyzers, defined in [OpenLibraryNET.Diagnostics](https://github.com/Luca3317/OpenLibrary.NET/tree/main/code%20generation/OpenLibraryNET.Diagnostics).

The simple PostBuild script defined in [OpenLibraryNET.RemoveGeneratorAttributes](https://github.com/Luca3317/OpenLibrary.NET/tree/main/code%20generation/OpenLibraryNET.RemoveGeneratorAttributes) strips the attributes from
OpenLibraryNET.

## Attributes
There are three attributes you may decorate your types with:
* [GenerateEquals] => the source generator will generate the Equals method for you
* [GenerateGetHashCode] => the source generator will generate the GetHashCode method for
* [CollectionValueEquality] => equivalent to using both GenerateEquals and GenerateGetHashCode

The generated methods will consider all fields (including fields generated by auto-properties). Fields that implement IEnumerable are compared pairwise in Equals and have the hashcode calculated by adding the hashcode of each element.

⚠️I wrote these attributes (and their associated source generators and analyzers) to allow me to more easily change the fields of the OLData containers. They are therefore untested for types other than record.
They also do not consider fields in base types.

If you want to ignore a specific field in a type decorated with one or more of these attributes, you can decorate it with the [IgnoreEquality] attribute.